#summary Feature list for the upcoming 1.0.3 release.
#labels Phase-Design,Featured

*_Note_:* This release will be labeled 1.1 since a number of features that will be made available are quite significant.

If you are itching to get your hands dirty and test the upcoming release, please beware that the command line options for GDataCopier have changed for this release. You might want to check your cron scripts.

This release depends on GData API Version 1.1.

GDataCopier 1.1 is expected to be released at the end of July 2008.

GData 1.1 doesn't support specifying what folder documents go into when uploading files. GDataCopier will not support this feature as part of the 1.1 release.

== Introduction ==

What you are going to see in the Version 1.0.3 relesae of GDataCopier. If you wish to contribute an idea please add to the Issues List.

== Details ==

New features

  * Support Google presentations
  * Upgrade GDataCopier to work with GData 1.1 - Implemented
  * Support folder specific downloads based on tags (refer to Atom feeds) - Implemented
  * Distutils based installer - Implemented
  * Option to move documents, this deletes the document from the Google servers - May not implement this incase GDataCopier fails to download documents (refer to issues in the past)


Bug fixes

  * Restore supported for Hosted accounts


== Usage manual ==

The following will be merged in with Usage manual when Version 1.1 is released. If you are interested in trying out these options please checkout the code from the SVN repository.

*Warning* the command line options differ from the previous releases of GDataCopier. They make more sense (atleast to me LOL). They had to be modified to add support for presentations.

=== Folder support ===

List all documents, spreadsheets and presentations that are in the folder "DBW Documentation"

{{{
powerhouse:python devraj$ ./gdoc-cp.py -l -f "DBW Documentation" -u devraj@gmail.com
}}}

Download all documents that are in the "DBW Documentation" folder

{{{
powerhouse:python devraj$ ./gdoc-cp.py -e pdf -g all -o /tmp  -u devraj@gmail.com -f "DBW Documentation"
}}}