#summary Getting started with GDataCopier 3.0.

*WARNING*: This is documentation for the current DevelopmentNotes30 version. If you wish to use this then please refer to the [http://code.google.com/p/gdatacopier/source/browse/#svn%2Fbranches%2F3.0 svn branch].

= Installation =

Currently available only via SVN.

== Requirements ==

  * Python 2.6+
  * [http://code.google.com/p/gdata-python-client/downloads/list GData Client Library] 2.0.16+ (Ubuntu users please ensure you have the right version).
  * Ability to establish HTTPS connections, check if you are using Proxies.
  * [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/keyring Python Keyring], available via easy_install or PIP.

Was developed and tested under OS X, tested under Linux. If you are using Windows and find any issues please report it to us.

= Authentication =

These will be stored in the user's [http://pypi.python.org/pypi/keyring Keyring]. Please note you will need Keyring support installed, generally available by default on OS X, Linux and Windows.

== Logging In ==

GDataCopier uses three legged OAuth to login to the Docs service, it's able to remain logged in, this is handy if you are scripting GDataCopier to automate backups.

{{{
gdc login 
}}}

If the machine running GDataCopier has a graphical interface and Web browser, GDataCopier will attempt to launch your browser and allow you to login.

If you are using GDataCopier on a headless box, it will provide you a URL that you must copy / paste in a browser and grant access after Login.

== Logging Out ==

If you have chosen to store your credentials using Keyring, you can use the logout command to revoke access as follows.

{{{
gdc logout
}}}

== Default username and impersonating users ==

= Asking for help =

= Operations =

== Copy ==

== List ==

Once you've logged in you can list documents by using

{{{
gdc list
}}}

== Delete ==

== Sync ==

== Directories ==